What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

A new Git repository is created in the directory we are in. To store files and 
updates for a project

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

It offers a stage to consolidate and make decisions before actually commiting to git
A repository is the destination for the commit while the WD is the original folder 
where the files were created.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?
you can use git diff to compare the versions of your file in the staging area to the file
you just changed in the working directory and make sure the change is a logical one. 
The staging area allows you to pause and ascertain alogical change before commiting.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?
When you want to make an identical copy of the same file but add a small change to it, 
which you dont want to keep in the master file, adding a branch will help. Branches can
help us make small changes without affecting the master. It also make sit easier to share 
versions we are working on as well as separate versions based on where we are on them.


How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
Diagrams tell us how to identify the latest commits, its parent and its relationship
 with the other commits in the branches. They also serve as a map to navigate to
 files as and when we want as well as understand how branches are inter related.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?
All changes are merged into the master brach, with the commits kept for both files and 
displayed according to timestamp. Hence the representation.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?
Automatic merging
Pros- Fast and easy to understand
Cons- Very hard to figure out subtle changes or changes by different users

Manual merging
Pros- Can be done when conflicts arise from different versions of the same file being merged

Cons- Requires tracking and altering to avoid further conflict, is labor intensive and 
can be error prone
